This repository serves as the data reduction process for SDFITS files provided to the **Skynet Robotic Telescope Network**. The pipeline is designed to handle radio tracking, ON/OFF, and mapping files. While integrated into Skynet, access to regularly scheduled calibration observations allows for all returned data to be flux calibrated into Janskys (Jy). The pipeline supports radio astronomy for students, educators, and astronomers!

---

## Validation

Validation is the first stage of the pipeline. This stage ensures that data is physical and maintains the integrity of the file.

* **Formatting**: It employs a Python-based pipeline to check data types for proper formatting.

* **Physicality**: It ensures there are no nonphysical values, such as negative temperatures in Kelvin.

* **Integrity**: Validation confirms that timestamps are valid for the associated data and that no NaN values exist.


## Atmosphere Correction

Skynet employs radio telescopes across the globe with L-, S-, C-, X-, Ku-, and K-band receivers.

* **Band Sensitivity**: L-, S-, and C-bands are not dramatically attenuated by the atmosphere, but X-, Ku-, and K-bands suffer significant transmission loss due to water vapor and oxygen absorption lines.

* **K-band**: This band contains a notable water vapor absorption line centered within its frequency range.

* **Modeling**: The model uses Buck equations for approximating saturation vapor pressure and ITU-R suggestions for slant path attenuations.


## Continuum

Continuum creates a gain calibrated and flux calibrated observation.

* **Gain Calibration**: Uses pre- and post-calibration spikes in the observation to place the data into calibration units.

* **Flux Calibration**: Uses scheduled calibration observations of sources like Virgo A, Taurus A, and Cygnus A to convert calibration units to Jy.

* **Robustness**: The pipeline ensures a robust data reduction process for the continuum by utilizing Robust Chauvenet Rejection (RCR) to handle outliers in calibration data.


## Spectrum

Spectrum creates a spectrum for the expected frequency range while also handling ON/OFF files when relevant.

* **Processing**: The spectrum is generated by integrating along the time axis.

* **ON/OFF Mode**: This mode allows for the frequency response of the diode to be removed so the true intensity of a source can be recovered.

---

## Additional Files

* **`main.py`**: Used to run the entire pipeline from start to end for a provided SDFITS file.

* **`file_corruption.py`**: Used for testing the pipeline's ability to catch and flag corrupted data.


* **`file_merge.py`**: A utility used for data management and testing.
